flutter: improve automatic instrumentation page (#8709)
getsentry/sentry-docs: src/platforms/flutter/integrations/app-start-instrumentation.mdx

---
title: App Start Instrumentation
description: "Learn more about the Sentry App Start Instrumentation for the Flutter SDK."
caseStyle: camelCase
supportLevel: production
sdk: sentry.dart.flutter
categories:
  - mobile
---

Sentry's App Start Instrumentation provides insight into how long your application takes to launch.

> <Note>
> 
> The App Start Instrumentation is shipped with Sentry's Flutter SDK automatically.
> 
> </Note>

Reviewer: Do we need this note? We don't have one on the Slow and Frozen Frames Instrumentation page, for example.

```suggestion
```

## Instrumentation Behaviour

> Before diving into the configuration, it's important to understand how the App Start Instrumentation behaves:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before diving into the configuration, it's important to understand how app start instrumentation behaves:
```

- The SDK attaches the app start metrics to the **first run transaction**.
- It tracks the length of time from the **earliest native process initialization** until the very first [PostFrameCallback](https://api.flutter.dev/flutter/scheduler/SchedulerBinding/addPostFrameCallback.html) is triggered.
- The SDK differentiates between a cold and a warm start, but doesn't track hot starts/resumes.

## Prerequisite

Before starting, ensure:

> 1. Sentry Flutter SDK must be initialized. Learn more [here](/platforms/flutter/#configure)
> 2. Performance Monitoring must be set up. Learn more [here](/platforms/flutter/performance/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. The Sentry Flutter SDK is nitialized. Learn more [here](/platforms/flutter/#configure)
2. Performance Monitoring is set up. Learn more [here](/platforms/flutter/performance/).
```

## Configure

> The instrumentation is automatically enabled. There is no need for further configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This type of instrumentation is automatically enabled. There is no need for further configuration.
```

## Verify

### 1. Execute the Transaction:

Initiate a transaction immediately after the app launches.

```dart
import 'package:sentry/sentry.dart';

final transaction = Sentry.startTransaction("test test", "my operation");
await Future.delayed(const Duration(milliseconds: 1000));
transaction.finish();
```

### 2. Locate Your Transaction:

> Open the Sentry performance dashboard, find and select the transaction you executed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Open the [sentry.io](https://sentry.io/) performance dashboard, find, and select the transaction you executed.
```

### 3. View App Start Metrics:

> Select the event within your transaction, Sentry displays the app start metrics on the right side of the screen.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Select the event within your transaction. Sentry.io displays the app start metrics on the right side of the screen.
```
